---
title:  "Rush Hour Version 1.0.0 Release Notes"
subtitle: "Release Notes"
date:   2022-08-19 17:29:13 +1100
tags: [unreal, unrealengine, ue4, ue5, tool, vehicles, animation, cars, animation, rushhour, releasenotes]
comments: true
version: 1.0
product-type: Tool
product: rushhour
---

# About Rush Hour

Rush Hour is an AI-powered toolkit for animating vehicles. Using the realtime physics engine of Unreal Engine, an AI driver will pilot a physically simulated vehicle across a spline-based path. You can select a number of different profiles (Racer, Frantic, Slowpoke, etc) and a profile strength to influence how the AI will behave.

## Version 1.0.0 (2022/11/02) notes:

This is the first public release of Rush Hour.

### Additions & Fixes

- Added a time control feature when using the Rush Hour spectator player controller with number keys. This can make fine tuning paths a little quicker. This is not recommended to be used during training.
- Align-To-Ground feature on paths now has advanced options to ignore actors and actor types, solving the issue of getting stuck on foliage and other volumes
- Training is significantly more reliable and accurate.
- Cornering force is now more accurate measured for vehicles that have low grip
- Training now gives more detailed errors when issues occur.
- Stopping hardness has now been added as a parameter for stop waypoints. This allows more artistic control over driver behavior
- Vehicle profiles now save to the game content directory. This means they will more easily be added to version control.
- Added editor icon for paths to more easily identify and select vehicle paths.
- Disabled Receive Decals on included vehicle meshes to stop road decals flashing over the vehicles.
- Improved driver profiles

### Upgrade Notes from Previous Betas

- Car references and recorded sequences using Rush Hour vehicles from Beta 1 & 2 will not work. You will need to relink cars to paths and re-record sequences.
- Make sure to fully delete any leftover Wheelman or RushHour folders from your plugins directory and Content directory before installing the new release.

