---
title:  "Rush Hour Version 1.1.0 Release Notes"
subtitle: "Release Notes"
date:   2023-01-10 17:29:13 +1100
tags: [unreal, unrealengine, ue4, ue5, tool, vehicles, animation, cars, animation, rushhour, releasenotes]
comments: true
version: 1.1
product-type: Tool
product: rushhour
---

## About Rush Hour

Rush Hour is an AI-powered toolkit for animating vehicles. Using the realtime physics engine of Unreal Engine, an AI driver will pilot a physically simulated vehicle across a spline-based path. You can select a number of different profiles (Racer, Frantic, Slowpoke, etc) and a profile strength to influence how the AI will behave.

## Version 1.1.0 (2023/01/10) notes

This version is the first major update and brings a great deal of improvements. The biggest improvement by far is the speed and handling improvements. Rush Hour now handles banked corners as well as uphill and downhill slopes in a much more intelligent manner providing even more realistic behaviour. Also included in this version are a new path visualizer to help visualize the path at runtime, as well as see action waypoints.

Another noteworthy inclusion is experimental support for runtime path creation via blueprints.

### Additions & Fixes

- Great speed and handling improvements
- Completely overhauled handling of banked curves, as well as uphill and downhill slopes
- Path Visualizer allowing you to see actions at each waypoint
- Runtime Path Visualizer to help fine tuning behaviour
- Experimental Runtime Path Creation support via improved Blueprint API.
- New Example Maps:
  - Jumps
  - Banked corners
  - Off-road 4x4
  - Runtime Path
- Added Ignore Triggers to path align-to-ground options
- Now measure corner radius in 2D to isolate uphill and downhill slope effects
- Re-tuned driving profiles to improve handling
- Lowered center of mass on chaos 4x4 to improve stability
- Moved the Light Control Component blueprint so it can now be used by both the Chaos and PhysX distributions, rather than being a duplicate.
- Increased size of Rush Hour Path icon so it's more clickable when further away from the start, as you are often working at quite a distance and large scale

## Upgrade Notes

**Always remember to backup projects and the current plugin version before updating**

You should complete the following steps to ensure best performance from the new version of Rush Hour

1. Delete `/Content/RushHour/Blueprints/DT_DriverProfiles` and `/Content/RushHour/Blueprints/DT_VehiclePerformanceData` if they exist
2. Retrain any vehicle you have previously trained
3. Click `Align To Ground` on any existing path to ensure the new banking and handling code works as expected

## Known Issues

None at this time.
